## Definitions

We start by reminding the definitions. Consider two functions $f(n)$ and $g(n)$ that are defined for all positive integers and take on non-negative real values. (Some frequently used functions used in algorithm design: $\log n$, $\sqrt{n}$, $n\log n$, $n^3$, $2^n$). We say that **$f$ grows slower than $g$** and write $f \prec g$, if $\frac{f(n)}{g(n)}$ goes to 0 as $n$ grows. We say that **$f$ grows no faster than $g$** and write $f \preceq g$, if there exists a constant $c$ such that $f(n) \le c \cdot g(n)$ for all $n$.

Three important remarks.
1. $f \prec g$ is the same as $f=o(g)$ (small-o) and $f \preceq g$ is the same as $f=O(g)$ (big-O). In this notebook, we've decided to stick to the $\preceq$ notation, since many learners find this notation more intuitive. One source of confusion is the following: many learners are confused by the statement like "$5n^2=O(n^3)$". When seeing such a statement, they claim: "But this is wrong! In fact, $5n^2=O(n^2)$!" At the same time, both these statements are true: $5n^2=O(n^3)$ and also $5n^2=O(n^2)$. They both just say that $5n^2$ grows no faster than both $n^2$ and $n^3$. In fact, $5n^2$ grows no faster than $n^2$ and grows slower than $n^3$. In $\preceq$ notation, this is expressed as follows: $5n^2 \preceq n^2$ and $5n^2 \preceq n^3$. This resembles comparing integers: if $x=2$, then both statements $x \le 2$ and $x \le 3$ are correct.
2. Note that if $f \prec g$, then also $f \preceq g$. In plain English: if $f$ grows slower than $g$, then $f$ certainly grows no faster than $g$.
3. Note that we need to use a fancy $\preceq$ symbol instead of the standard less-or-equal sign $\le$, since the latter one is typically used as follows: $f \le g$ if $f(n) \le g(n)$ for all $n$. Hence, for example, $5n^2 \not \le n^2$, but $5n^2 \preceq n^2$.
